Yeah. Yeah, no worries.
Is it okay if we record to allow them to watch it back? Or are there sensitive things? Okay, we'll keep it internal because I know that it's sensitive.
Okay, cool. Perfect. Okay. Thank you so much.
I will hand it over to you.
Cool, yeah.
Well, also Alex, by the way, if there's ever anything that you do want to share that's kind of sensitive or confidential, just let us know we could pause it.
Alright, awesome. Yeah, as everybody who comes back to our side, you know, what happens here?
Exactly.
We're having text, things. We had a bunch of stories for, so we're like, I've never told this to anybody, but I'm sorry you guys.
Nothing, nothing crazy like that here. So feel free to record.
And people prepared a lot of questions to, people have been very excited to hear from you. So is it okay if as you are speaking, maybe people raise their hand or unmute and ask you questions?
Yeah, I'll pause. I'll pause after every slide and let you guys ask questions.
Awesome. Okay, I know they're eager to ask you some stuff, so. I'm excited to get into it.
Sounds great. Cool. Let me share my screen real quick.
Let me know if you guys see this something needs to be bigger.
Looks great.
Okay, awesome. So I'll start with. 3rd of the basics, you know, not a lawyer, not a financial advisor.
So none of this is either legal vice or and, also none of this is prescriptive.
As you listen to more and more stories, you're gonna hear very, very different experiences.
Company's fundraising, but this is just one company's perspective. So take everything I say with the, and kind of adapt it to your own situation.
Cool. Let's get going. So. Just this used to be an important decision, probably left though now, but you know, are you doing this remote or you're doing with the person?
During COVID, all of fundraising was remote and we actually raised remotely. Through all 4 rounds due to COVID except for the only in person meeting we had was our final series a, partner meeting, which we flew out to.
So again, my experience is unique here because all of my fundraising was done for Zoom and maybe it would have been easier.
Better to do. As I meet more investors in person now I see how much easier it is not having done before so I highly recommend we'll get into kind of the sequencing of stuff but I highly recommend which into a person at a certain point of your fundraising process.
Yeah, mainly as, as you guys probably know in person just people place more pressing you after having met you and there's a lot more body language.
That expresses people's interest in, stuff that you just don't see over Zoom.
Cool. So not sure where everybody is as far as, you know, whether you raise money before or not, whether this is kind of, or not, but all of this is also gonna dirty by round slice.
So I'm gonna kinda address the various round sizes since, how much of fundraising since we've gone through a bunch.
And the approach is slightly different depending on how much money you're raising. And it gets, you know, can be easier and more complex depending on public, which that you're looking for and what's what level of sophistication about through your speaker.
So starting up with small raises under a million dollars, you know, this was up. We actually raised 3 tech stars, had a fee, a couple of C checks, 3 text, and then we get testers and we did a little bit more, we don't know the same raise afterwards.
So under a million bucks, easiest thing to do is not to go. After institutional investors, it's really just to find angels.
Who. Leaving you plus you aren't gonna do it kind of heavy diligence. And you know, we'll get any money based on based on your idea and based on their customer.
So wasn't a million bucks. You, you know, you can finally, it's always nice to have somebody putting in a larger check, like at least, you know, 100 200 K so you can say, hey, this person is leading the round.
But it means that strictly necessary. You can just collect a bunch of space from folks and say, hey, this is enough.
This is enough to get us to our next stage. So thing goes for process. A very strict process isn't typically necessary, but learning the process and learning to organize your phone rays.
At the stage is really gonna help you in future stages. I made this mistake. The disparity ad hoc.
And it kind of did us when we get, when we got to a series, and it was a much more, sprinting process and the timing got very complicated because we weren't ready to run a very organized fundraise.
And I'll guess of that a little bit later. As far as the instruments to use during a raise under a million bucks, typically safe, YC safe or convertible notes.
You know, there's, there's, most, so, you know, stick to those, it's easier, you can't take money at different times. It's easier.
You can take money at different times. You don't need to get everybody synced up. I see some questions.
Okay.
I have a question. Hi Alex, I'm Mali, a from from aware. We're building something.
A little bit similar to an interest sense. It includes a wearable as well. My question is what was the average size of the check that you were asking 2 angels and what was the average time to check.
So How does this timeline compare also to a progressive series with VCs?
Yeah, it's a good question. Have they already found the web? Who you know and what you have coming in, right?
So pre talk stars, we raised I think 300 K from somebody I knew well, somebody I worked with before who does angel musting and it was a it was very easy right we got coffee and he said like I'm in and I'll give you some that added to the top stars.
Safe was enough to get us through You know, all of that stars and, gave us time to do a property raise afterwards.
So But after Tuck Stars, I think that next. I guess you can call it an official feed round, took us.
Let's say maybe. 3 just 6 months. Actually have some. That's the note down at the bottom as far as time goes.
And typically, Typically most rounds are gonna take at least 3 months unless you're you know if you're really really crushing it and there are people lining up to give you money it's very different this was not our situation so this is not the sort of you know you in a core and gross story where people are knocking our door down and we had to like refuse people.
Even for a series a probably talk to I think with 85 investors before you got a lead.
And we only got one search cheap. So, again, depending on. Depending on how fast you're growing and how easy it is to kind of what space you're in and you know whether it's in whether that space is hot right now everybody's adding AI to the end of their startup things.
It's a different one.
Thank you. But, so to clarify, you only took essentially one check from Angel Fund, A, Angel Investors, which was that 300 K from friend.
We actually, we took angel checks through all of our fundraising, every single round.
We took money from angels, because they were, you know, they were able to fill, fill the round for us a lot of time.
So if we were, you know, a million dollar short, even if it's a bigger round, it's totally okay to getting those involved.
Thank you.
Hmm.
Cool. And, you guys can just. I can see everybody so I can see who's got their hands up.
I don't know if you are calling people or if people could just
Yeah, yeah, you, you're Kevin, you're next. You guys can just go when it's your turn.
You got it.
Yeah, sure. Thanks, thanks, Leanna. Alexa, I'm Kevin, founder for GIF Graham.
Just a question just regarding some of the I don't know, do you particularly have like a personal preference like safe value cap, no discount, safe discount, no value cap and a MFN like is there something that you see is a little more favorable.
Yeah. I'm actually gonna. Actually got a section here called Safe or Unsafe and we're gonna we're gonna cover all of that stuff.
Cool. Thank you.
Thank you.
Hi, thanks so much for, for joining the call. Really excited to, to learn from you today.
Just the question about targeting angels. How do you target? I tried to sign up for, okay, so we raised $200,000 total, of which 1 20 was through text stars.
So we did raise something like 75 K from Angels. And those are people that I had a previous relationship with.
Yep.
How do I target outside of my network or should I even at all? Because I tried to sign up for one of these like angel groups like I live in LA and there's this that close angels thing and they wanted they did not basically let me even talk to them.
And they said, you know, talk to us when you have more traction. Is that the main pathway or, do you, do you have tips on that?
Yeah, I'm gonna jump over here to the references. So there are a bunch of places to find angel investors.
Obviously a warm is the best, right? If you, if somebody's connected. Through and then you know they're in a gelester you ask your friends or phone numbers for intros.
There then you guys don't need to write all this down. I'll send you the video afterwards.
Now there's a lot of What I like to do is actually kind of a hacky thing, which is go on Angela's become part of a syndicate, like actually sign up as an investor as part of a syndicate and then reach out to the syndicate lead and You know, just reach out to chat about the, and then kind of, you know, slide in a little pitch of your
company and see if they're interested. And Angel lets you filter by early page, late-, and so on.
So it's an easy way to get on a call with somebody. That's 1 way, you know, that there are Lots of databases out there to kind of Google Docs sheets and text start from the database I'm sure.
So And a few things like sechax.com where it's a very, Just give him your, like, yes or no, you can push to us.
And they're, also, send you guys like launch which are a little bit later stage or getting to our panelists.
Where you again apply, you go with some information, and then depending on what stage you're at, they'll let you pitch to their certificate.
Oh, perfect. There you go.
We raised from lines already. That was our 1st check in. Yeah, yeah. And that's because I knew Jason from the previous.
Okay, great. So we just, basically do a lot of research and we qualified leads and we run basically a sales process.
That's it.
Yeah, yeah, exactly. We'll get into that. We'll get into the process in a couple of minutes.
Antonio.
Thank you.
Hi Alex, I'm Antonio, co-founder of Aware as well, like, with, with, with, with Ali.
We're doing a wearable for EG technology for mental wellbeing. So, the, we're doing launching pre-sale, on, on demo day and then in 6 months for 90 summer we're gonna launch the actual crop funding campaign.
And we're trying to time that with the so the next 6 months we're gonna do sales and then give us a lot of really practical tips on how to do that.
Through social media and stuff and we realize we're realizing running our financial model that we need at least somewhere about around the 500 K of Angel.
Funding having a safe maybe. So, but what we heard from, from D is that do the salesperson and raise money.
Yeah.
What are your thoughts? Maybe he mentioned more like seed rounds and on angel, like would it be a good time at this point?
To ask funding from angels even if we don't have the KPIs that we need to show that.
Yeah. I think.
And what was your time? Also, in nutrients, like when you do start the sales, when you get those 3 the 1st $300,000 check.
Yeah, 1st 300,000 check was pre product. It was pre text stars pre product. I guess we well we then have a prototype I think We were free sales at that point.
But if you have a demo product, that's good enough for a lot of angels. Like if, if you have something they're, they're impressed by, and it's especially if you guys are building hardware, that's A prototype is difficult, right?
It takes a lot of time to take some resources, it takes some capital investment. So if you have a double product, I think in a hardware, that's, that's already good enough that you put in work.
And being able to raise 500 K with a photo. I don't see a problem with that.
And the prototype can be also an existing consumer product that uses our app in our algorithms, right?
Doesn't have to be Cause we have, we have a prototype, but we're gonna release a prototype.
Hmm.
At the end of the month for demo day, our own product hardware prototype. But it's probably gonna be functional in in the next month or so.
They should be good enough.
Yeah. For sure, that's what we did, right? Our CGMs, our wearables aren't manufactured by us.
We use off-the-shelf, you know, update devices made by . So our prototype was also just a software and services layer on top of that hardware.
Algorithms on top of data from another company's product. That's a that's a risk you're gonna run into and later from raising, but it sounds like you're you are building your own hardware.
It's just not there yet. So a software prototype is full of
Thank you.
Those are all the questions for now, Alex.
Okay. Awesome. Alright, so moving on, round sizes that are one to 5 million dollars.
So in our case, post duck stars, I believe our seed round was like 3.5 million and we raised that without a, actually launch was our launch was technically our leader ruster and that was a syndic so we raised the whole 3.5 million from syndicates and angels so it is doable you do not need to go to you know large funds to raise one to 5 million these days the
syndicates are fairly large and you can find enough of them and if you find enough angels, you can totally throw around.
A lead really helps in terms of just having somebody that puts in a large check and can vouch for you, because there's this, you know, they're kind of proxy trust, they got their lead.
So where, somebody like launch, I think everybody understands that a lot does. And There's also a presentation process and there's something to get kind of both in whether they want to invest in your company or not.
So it helps having either a large enough syndicate or a large enough. We check to where people can bust that enough.
Again, when it comes to organization. In around the size the timing and organization is a lot more important.
So we'll get into timing in a little bit, but really just doing like. As they come, trying to convince people and trying to raise money, when you're raising this size of around is a lot harder.
Because you're going to constantly run into the chicken or a problem of, okay, who's your lead?
How much or how many people are committed? And you're gonna say, well, you know, you're the 1st and they're gonna say, cool, come back to me when you have had the wrong committed and this is gonna happen over and over and over again.
And so if you don't time this well and run it like a sales funnel and we'll get into that.
It's been brought up already. At this point, it's gonna be a lot harder.
I think around the size, you can just kind of wing it and say I'm gonna raise a couple station color a day when it comes to more than a million dollars you really do want to organize your fundraising.
You can still use same notes. We want all saves. On our second round.
And again, somebody gets. Are a good way to raise larger checks from groups of angels.
So we're one angel can put in, you know, 2 to 500 KA syndicate can put in 2 million.
Something as large as Jason.
There's no questions on this one, we can kinda jump to the next stage. Call surrounds over 5 million.
This is where syndicates are typically not enough. And you really do need at least one large commitment to get others to move.
Also, there's a lot more diligence that's required and a lot more kind of proxy trust that you need to get.
So having a proper lead here is important. It does not have to be an institution lead, it can be a family office.
Okay.
It can be. You know, somebody famous. If you take a chat from, I don't know, something like that, right?
So, but you do want to prioritize finding the 1st before trying to fill the rest of The rest of your whole round is going to depend on the truck that people have for your weed and how to land they put in themselves.
The again the process here much more important otherwise things are gonna drag out like 6 to 9 months and want that happening when you need to work on the company at this point.
Angel syndicates crowdfunding all of that stuff and still help, you know, you can raise a quarter or half a year around preferably from a lead, and the rest you can fill through, for the lead, and the rest you can fill through Ferrata and your rest you can fill through Ferrata and your existing angel investors and syndicates and you know any new
angels and you're existing angel investors and syndicates and you know any new angels and get to.
Alrighty.
I think. What it comes to really large rounds again. All of these things just are amplified, right?
You know, with a very large check, typically more than 75% of your round. And you really don't want to spend time taking 10 K checks from, from angels because you're gonna need a lot of those.
So the larger ground, the more important the lead and the size of your check is and also there, you know.
Their, kinda who they are in the community and whether people know them.
One question, Alex, chime in here. David, I can hear me CEO of Tux.
Okay. Yep.
The question is around. Was using text the tech start narrative as them being already a leading investor helpful when it came to raising capital or was that something?
You kind of avoided and looked for another lead. more for the smaller rounds, but not, above 5 million but the 1 million to 5 million and below that was that valuable or were you trying to avoid that?
Texas was helpful in getting us out there and getting those 1st incoming, incoming emails from investors.
But it wasn't you know just folks who watch double day reaching out to us and saying they're interested in talking so they it definitely helps to cut the time to kind of Where's the batch of people reaching out to you?
But unfortunately I think YC is really the only, accelerator that's gonna give you enough cloud to basically have people lighting up for your.
Yeah, I guess maybe clarify, not a question around. The cloud of the recognition, but more of the concept of someone's like, hey, who's your lead investor?
Oh, tech stars, my lead investor. Did that land well or was it like? No, that's an accelerate, that's not a lead investor.
Yeah, I wouldn't call tech start to lead. I because every accelerator program is gonna give me a chat.
They're gonna want somebody outside.
Gotcha. Thank you.
Cool, so quick detour. And, so all your safe questions are welcome. I, I can run through these real quick, you know, high level concepts, you know, you know, free your post money, the default YC safe is post money.
You should know that it matters later on when these things and work in your, in your Thursday and so on.
Caps, you need to understand what a cap is on a post money save the cap is really easy.
It's different. Kind of pretty much safe. It's a little bit difficult. With a cap and a post when you say it's basically you know, if you haven't, if you're raising it 1 million dollars, an 8 million plus 20 faith, that implies that the investor gets 4 and a half percent of the company.
Super easy to do that. Pre money saves, it's a little harder to do that math.
But they technically benefits you. When the saves convert. So there's a little bit of trade off.
I'm using pre your post when he says. Discounts that's the other economic term in a faith that's You have a cap, annual discount.
If you're app is so the they have the cap of 8 million but your next round is at 9 million.
The investor choice do they take the discount on the cap being slightly lower than the next round or did they take the discount?
That is specified here, which could be a 20% discount, which, which is better than the discount they would get on the cap and they get to choose the better of the 2.
Auto conversion, this is something that I'm really sure. I'm not sure if why I think we have to add this.
You are safe because this wasn't a default clause in the YC safe. Some investors will ask for this.
This basically means that eventually they're safe has to out of convert to shares. Otherwise you could just raise a bunch of money and save, never raise again and never have to give any equity to your investors.
If the sake has no auto conversion clause what else? So most favorite nation. This is kind of investor safety net.
They just wanna know that in this round. You're not gonna change the terms on them. Like you give them a 8 million safe and then you give somebody a 7 million caps safe.
I'm just means they're gonna get the buzz deal that you offered anyone in this road.
So safety not for the rest are pretty typical and usually no issue. With giving that to folks unless they're, unless you're a whole strategies to like raise, that are standard.
And Yep, go for it.
I'll ask you. Sorry, Jennifer Lowe here from Travis. I was gonna ask you, so those, terms, the clauses that you added in to your safe notes.
That were more like net positive for the investor. Are those the things that they bring up and they ask to bring it?
To add it to the to the safe. And then when they do bring those things up, do you usually try to negotiate it?
Off of the office safe or do you just agree to it? Like how often do investors bring up terms that are just not favorable to founders and therefore you have to negotiate or just Take what they give you.
Yeah, so everything I've talked about so far is not worth negotiating about, like, out of conversion, whatever, like they're facing, we're talking 3 years, it's fine.
But that is kind of the assumption that they're eventually going to own back company. I know, I know some companies have not had this as, like, just became a profitable company and it's never convert their face and they must have a piss because they don't own any equity, but they just have this like piece of paper that says that hey if we ever sell we promise you some shares.
And the message never become shareholders in the company. So really sucks with investor, but also not typically your intention, right?
It's a to raise another round and convert their face. So this is not a theory one. Most of your nation both defined again, unless you're trying to do this whole staggering.
It just means that you're gonna give everybody the same deal. The 5 letters is where it gets.
So, with tech stars they're. Their safe is at a 3, 3 million cap.
And so like if we are trying to raise at a higher post money evaluation. Then like, technically.
What's that?
Personally fine. It's a it's a new route. Just call it in your app.
Like your text.
Yeah, that's fine, Joe.
Okay, so that's another question I was gonna ask you. You said you have 4 rounds of funding, but you're currently at series A.
So essentially what you did was like an accelerator around and then a precede and then a seed and then series A.
Yep, exactly.
Okay, thank you.
Yep, and I'll talk about the downsides of doing that also. Probably not the best.
Choice and hindsight. But the, the side loaders is where things get interesting.
So prorata is fairly common. What this gives the investor the option to do, not the, it's only an option, they don't have to do it, but basically it's too maintain their state, potential stake ownership in the company.
So if they give you enough money to own, I don't know, 5%. In the next round, they are able to put in up to whatever the cash number is to maintain a 5% state.
Right. So whenever you raise a piece around like a Series A, we need to make sure to leave room for any provider holders to exercise their and you know, you should ask them ahead of time when you're raising, like, are you going to exercise your parole, right?
And if they are, make sure you leave enough room in the round. So if you're raising 25 million and you need 5 million just for.
Make sure that we check is maximum 20 million check because you are required to give them that Perfect. Definitely also a typical ask.
We actually didn't have too many people ask for it, maybe 3 and they're the standard per outer side letter from YC that you can pull that comes along with us with the safety.
It's important here to know that text has this and they take it really seriously and I would say like not all the time, but they at least want to be able to consider exercising the right.
Yep.
So that's why you guys have to let them know when you're, raising.
Yeah, totally. And, has investment in all of our follow on routes, which is awesome.
Thank you, Texas.
But for textures, aren't they invested in common shares? So like it's different if you're investing.
And like doing a standard investment through preferred chairs.
Pretty sure it's like host for 1st share as well, correctly from all. If anything's changed.
Okay.
I feel like it was commentaries but
It's about the, no, it's about the safe for the safe. It's completely different.
Hey. So yeah.
Okay.
So like the convertible note. That's what's different. So that's what they're gonna exercise the right time.
Oh. Got it. Okay.
So it's not even relevant if you didn't take the note.
Right.
Oh, right.
Exactly. You got it right, Mary.
So, that's 2 separate investments. One of them, the small one is indeed for common shares, the 20 K and then the 100 K optional one is a convertible node that converts into preferred just like any other standard.
That's right, good. Yeah, good point.
Sorry, I was lumping them into 2, but I. I don't know. Thank you.
Yeah, so yeah, their notes preferred their 7% or whatever. it's common.
Sounds like I honestly forgotten about that one. And yeah, so the other side letters is where things can get very custom and interesting.
Like a message can ask for other rights and typically those won't be part of the safe language like you typically don't need to change the same they'll just add on another side letter with extra language in there and app for various things.
Sometimes the last word, look, I know, it's like, which is perfectly reasonable, like that's ask for information rights for observer rights.
And all of that a standard and perfectly okay sometimes you know somebody might ask the board seat. Sometimes people might ask for some sort of I don't know they can't put whatever they want honestly I would not accept anything that is not standard.
So information rights, that's fine. We just want to update. Typically also remember that you get to renegotiate all of this stuff in your next round so any flight letters or any whatever you're safe to work all of us all all of us all the side owners get thrown away and you renegotiate everything.
So no, the lifetime of the site letters is only until your next,
Yeah, so Other notes and saves. Just try to give a standard as possible.
Typical version of the post money safe reasonable cap. 20% of this count is pretty standard if you're in a good position you can do 10 3 year outer conversion, no most favorite nation is the common version of this some people last for it I would not typically give it out unless you, this is a big check.
And korata again don't give it by default but you can give it a request that's the 1st that we use.
And so most of our space were identical, except a couple of them had, provider rights and, I think only one had a most favorite nation clause.
One thing to know, and this is exactly why The auto conversion is typically there is because if you if you have a dead instrument, if you have a convertible map, like text stars.
That node is accumulating interest right so for whatever time it doesn't convert you are you are paying tech stars interest on that note.
Things are not that you do not have to, there's no interest associated with them. So if there's no liquidity event, or if there's no price round, the safe does not have to convert.
And that's why the auto conversion causes that that we added to the wind left or heels that eventually you don't get to actually own shares of your company.
The Obviously, some companies liquidate, right. If you have convertible notes, those are considered that and you do have to, you are that top of the liquidation stack you have to pay the dug back.
If you're if you're liquidating company the saves do not get that same treatment so they would not sit at the top of the whole equation stack.
But it is of course good. Good Yeah, good to leave enough money in the bank to pay back whatever investors you can.
So other instruments, again, a vertical notes, fairly common, they are considered that they do have interest and really the sort of liquidation stack mechanics is the only thing that's different about them, is the only thing that's different about them, other than interest.
I would try to stay away from mixing too many instruments. I know that like text ourselves a note, that's fine.
But pick one and stick to it. That's gonna be. Theseiest things to do.
Find out to mix like. You know have the buses, what, they, have their masters want, say, it's just they, hey, we're doing things, Okay.
And they said that they won't call out because they know that. So the standard, that they do.
Cool. Any questions on? And technology.
Okay, Alex, I think the question I have is, regarding SIFS and I'm raising a normal round in as much as safe is very easy it's also seems there are some disadvantages in terms of cost.
So I don't know how does that compare with you know let's say you're raising a million.
How does that compare with doing a normal precede route or recently to save in terms of the costs eventually at the end.
Which costs like the legal costs or the dilution cost
No, in terms of because we were talking about it with some of our lawyers and they were like, you know, that it's actually costly in the longer run.
I think with regards to maybe when it converts to maybe when it converts the equity that you lose in goods, maybe when it converts the equity that you lose in goods, yeah.
Yeah, so I just.
Yeah. Yeah, so. Yeah, it's a good question. We learned this lesson a little bit late, but That's where the pre your postman you say comes in.
The post money safe is pretty costly. And when you stack them, when you stuck multiple rounds of post money saves.
The way they work is when it comes time for your price ground all of the savings you raised They are treated as part of the preferred series A round and they will dilute you along with all of the money coming in from the Series Investor and only the founders are going to get the looted by all that cash.
When you raise free money saves, typically the previous investors from the previous round also get they alluded by the new cache so let's say you raise 4 rounds of free money.
You're not taking the brunt of the dilution yourself as the founders it's you and the investor from the previous round take some devolution for the next round and then second second time again and again with post money saves it's basically The founders take the broad of evolution for all the saves, the Series Day money and the new.
Are pretty full. So there, I would find out the stack them. So once you raise the safe round, I would probably go to the next.
So I think it's fine to do like, you know, your tech around on a safe and then your, but then your next round, it would be better to do a price round if you can.
If not, then oh well, you know, you're having a safe, but you will pay a little bit in the, later.
Okay, thank you very much.
Okay.
Okay, so let's get into timing. What do you need before you kick things off?
And again, we're focusing on kind of slightly larger round. Where you really need to get the time to write you really should get organized so what sort of collateral do you need before you get started you definitely want a forwardable email that you can ask for answers with.
So when you ask for an inter, somebody's going to say, hey, I'm, a, affordable.
This is an email, and you're using yourself, your company, and ask for an intro to a specific investor that you want the introduction to.
That makes it easier for your friend, colleague, whatever to make that ensure all they need to do is forward that email.
Typically in the forwardable, you know, one page teaser. Or short deck or just some metrics about your company.
Whatever you think is going to get their attention is really all you need to include. Like I think in our for, we just include our revenue growth over the last whatever the 6 months or something and that was enough to get calls.
But you know, pre revenue. You can put a, or one pager. Yes.
A data teaser duck is nice to have or later. Again, this is probably for. Later rounds when you actually have data to share.
But I think that that is especially screenshot of your financial model or your financials.
And, it, it, you, all that stuff in your deck and, Nicely.
Nicely organized. As far as the data room goes, this is not the point of time where you want to spend, you know, a month preparing a data room.
You basically just want, you want the basic center, you want historical financials, you want a financial model with projections and you want a cohort now with this and that following into your business.
I also highly recommend doing this, which is a screen recording walkthrough on loom of your financial model because nobody's gonna know how to use your like, 20, so I do not recommend just sending somebody.
Actually, I do not recommend just sending somebody. Excel cheating being a web. You guys got this.
Just do walk through a video and that they can play around with it. Don't understand how it works better.
Until you get to wait around, you typically don't need much else. I mean, if you're a B to B, South business, they're gonna ask you for, you know, maybe some contracts, otherwise, things of that nature.
So different for different businesses we were do to see all the matter for us is Yeah, our model, our cohort knowledge.
The other thing you probably want to do is create a monthly master update. You guys already talked about this with text stars, I'm sure, and stick to even before you start your round.
Start updating anybody who gets in your contact list as far as investors go. Start sending them monthly updates of your progress.
And as you keep adding registers to your list, each sending the updates throughout your phone raising, process.
That way they're gonna get to know your business better, without having to do more calls with you that That necessary.
So, because they're constantly getting updates, seeing the progress, seeing the growth, it's just much easier to do with anything.
So we started building this list. As soon as we joined tech stars, in fact, every one of our test stars like, what is called, the, dating folks have been on our.
And then set a set of target date for when you want your initial calls to start, or sorry, when you want to sign, so that you know you're shooting for, you know, we want a site, and she 3 months from now.
At this point, everything does not have to be perfect. Focus on the basics, 80 20 rule, just enough.
Is get to focus. It's something you can pull off the shelf. If we'll get to this in a second, but you don't want to be catering to every investor at this point in during the inter call process.
Any questions on the, stuff.
Yeah, so Alex said the question, tell me here again. So would this apply also to Angels?
Or is mainly for price rounds or Yeah.
And this is really any any round. I think post text is where you do want to run a process when you're pitching to people you don't know, right?
When you have a you've never met before, I think all of the supplies. If you were just switching to like angels investors, you already have connected with, obviously you can, you know, get a check over coffee.
This is more of, okay, I need to at least talk to 2030 people in order to get enough seed money.
So anytime you're filling up the top of the funnel and running a fundraising process, all of this is gonna apply.
Okay, great. Thank you. And then a couple of more questions, another question regarding the angel.
So if you can clarify the difference between an angel and and a normal investor, sounds like the angel or more your friends.
And, and also in terms of equity, that you give to an angel versus a, like a price round or a, Okay.
And how would you initiate a conversation? I know this is very personal, but even with an angel like to say, okay, we need 500 K by the end of the year on a safe.
How would you have that copy with your friend and have the conversation?
Oh, same exact way you would with an investor. I mean, you, I'm here the terms, we're raising an 8 million cap on a safe note, and the amount of equity they get just depends on how much money they give you.
So there's something special for Angels, and you, obviously, the, on what people are willing to pay, but if you're, you know, if your 1st coupling, you'll say like, Hey, no way you guys are, you know, I'm not gonna do whatever, 40 million host money on your like 3 3 revenue see round.
Oh, you're gonna need to go down the price. So you kind of discover that as you start talking to people.
But if you keep it pretty standard, you know, post text, I think we raise the 8 million.
Most money, and that seem reasonable to everybody.
Thank you.
Hey Alex, one question. Could you explain the biggest difference between what's in the teaser deck and what's in your actual deck and like.
What information you should be kind of holding out to get them interested but not giving too much of like the sauce.
Yeah, the, is all the things that are gonna get people's attention, right? So anything that causes them to have a bunch of questions about your business in the back of their mind.
That's the, that you need to answer all of those questions. You actually just want to get them excited enough to get a call with you to ask those questions. You actually just want to get them excited enough to get a call with you to ask those questions.
Right? So if you're showing strong revenue growth, fantastic. Or if you have like an amazing team of super experienced folks in within the street.
That's great. So whatever you want to put front of, you know, those should be the 1st slides in your duck.
If revenue is your, if you're growing, you know, you're probably in the 1st 3 slides.
If you're, I don't know, if you have some amazing hardware product, but that should be in the 1st couple of lives.
So it's all about instead of like a 1 pager we're trying to crab everything in a single page and that's really really difficult to read.
I would prefer a teaser duck where there's just enough slides in there to get somebody interested in asking questions in the in the back of their head to get somebody interested in asking questions in the back of their head and wanting to talk to you.
Thank you so much.
Alex, I think my question is regarding depth financing. There seem to be this unspoken rule where people shone it or you know cast it in bad light.
So I'm just thinking and if What is your experience like we're getting debt financing for instance if you have let's say you accompany on lines of credit as well if you have and somebody that is willing to give you maybe a debt of let's say a million.
To put in the company but then you don't pay some of them would tell you you don't pay any interest for the 1st 2 years something like that do you have any experience with it have you seen companies that do it and Why is it?
Frowned upon if any.
I think it depends on when you're taking this money. So that at a free product company is not a good idea because you have no idea what your return capital was like you that cost you something right cost your interest you have no idea what your cats are.
You have no idea. Like if you can acquire customers, you don't know what your LTV is.
With that, you know the cost of capital like it's right there. It says like, you know, 8%, a year.
So you need to make sure that whatever you're making off of that is better than 8% a year, to make it worth it.
And usually a company at an early doesn't have enough information to know that. What it does help with is if you have inventory and you need a revolving credit line.
And you want to have like 90 day payment terms so that your, so that you have a better cash flow situation where, you know, you can pay for the inventory.
90 days later instead of paying for it now, then that makes total sense. What you're buying is 3 months of time to pay back your, inventory costs.
Thank you very much.
Yeah, and I'll chat about that a little bit later. But when you get into future rounds, when you do know your acquisition process, do you know your LTE?
You do know that like, hey, if we take. If we take 5 million, in debt and we spend our marketing, we are going to get.
20% return on our restaurant and that only costs us whatever. You know 6 or 7% it is really easy to do that map and say okay that makes sense why give away equity in my company if I can just get this money essentially like way cheaper.
And it's gonna be like as soon as you're raising seriously, that's a sizeable series A, you're gonna get, you're gonna get banks offering your debt all day long.
Like I, most most common spam on my phone is people trying to do something that.
Okay, thank you very much.
Okay, awesome. So, DAX, this may not be a platform opinion. I have never used Dex for pitches unless they I've only used them for intro emails and the final partner call.
So reason they're good French for email is the teacher, you get people excited. It also allows whoever receives that into email to show that that to other partners.
You know, other folks in their fund. And talk about your company because they're not used to talking about your company.
They can use to talk about it. And then again, I'm a final partner call, the rest of the partners are not as informed by your company.
So doing a deck driven presentation makes sense. It gives them kind of a lot more information. Visually and answers a lot of their questions.
Anything in between. Did not use next sport. So all of the calls that happened were just conversations.
Everything from the 1st central call to the final call with the partner that says, okay, we'll still for partner meeting.
I found that to be. A lot more comfortable i didn't feel like i was presenting or being judged all the time on my presentation and i felt like I could come in there and you know
All of them hold on the story and the story kind of, you know, shift from morphs and changes all the time and not have to stick to a script as you're doing it.
So and then they can interrupt, ask questions, you can go back and forth. It just gets a lot more natural than being this.
In this kind of presentation sort of mode where you're trying to get through a thing and the other person doesn't know whether they can interrupt and it's not.
So I just found that way more comfortable not to use that unless there's like a you know, if there's a visual slide or some like complicated thing with your hardware, something that makes those 2, to them.
As far as numbers go, any numbers you should know by heart. That can help you with visual stuff, again, like visualizing hardware or pictures of your app.
It actually if you have an app I'd recommend just doing a live demo, but zoom lets you share your phone too.
Yeah, just show them what the app does. Or for quickly answering questions that are just already in your back.
But any sort of like numbers or anything should be like, Oh, sorry. Let me pull up my that in my back.
If they ask you about something you don't know, just say, hey, I don't know.
I don't know that off the top of my head. I can. She's an email unless you know what that number is.
Again, if you can convince an investor to keep, you know, I'll tell somebody other firm about your business, and you have a story problem, that problem.
And again, thanks for the great assault. You guys might, if you love Dex. Go for it.
A lot of people use Dex. I just personally prefer scaling fast. So it is in the VCs or investors best interest to drag the process out in order to collect as much information as possible.
In order for them to make a decision because the more information they have, the better decision they can make on their investment.
Your incentives are the opposite. Right? It is not to have them drive us out. It is to for them to give you a yes or no as quickly as possible.
So, set timelines on everything. Somebody does not meet your timeline, remind them once. And then move on.
And I know this is gonna be painful. It was painful for me. It is going to be painful for you.
It is something you just have to learn by doing. Like, no matter what I say, you will try to keep.
You know, like to drag in old investors who like aren't moving fast enough. After doing this a few times, and if your top of the phone was large enough, you're not going to care.
So after one reminder, they're not moving just. You know, forget about them and they get reinterested again, they'll reach out to you.
And that's the next point here. You know, investors are truly interested. They're gonna keep the momentum going without you having to push them along.
Put somebody along. Same thing as they do, right? Like if you have to eat trying to like restart conversation, somebody's not answering your test.
They're clearly not that interested and for seeing it isn't helpful. You're only gonna be wasting your own time.
So failing fast to see here and think of this as you know how yes or no. And if they're slow and they're kind of dragging things out, just assume it's no.
And keep going.
Alex, can you speak to like getting knows or assuming it's a no? Cause I have so many founders come to me after program when they're trying to raise and it hurts.
Like founders when investors don't respond and it almost feels personal. So like how do you get over that almost like sentiment of, oh, like they're not responding, they owe me a response, like I feel slighted by this investor.
How do you just shake it off and move on and you don't care that it's a no?
Yeah, 2 things. Do not invest. Too much effort into any one of us early on, right?
You want to, You want to give everybody the same amount of attention. It's painful when, you know, you start talking somebody and they, they force you out of your process and they start to ask for more data, more information and you do all this work and give it all to them before you give it to anybody else.
And then they just go through. And in that case, like you've put in the work and then it feels even more painful because hey I just did all this work for you what the hell what did you just go to me so that's why it's important to keep everything on your schedule another schedule.
If they ask for something you're not ready to give yet or you haven't reached that point in your fundraising process, just say, that's 1 way is by not over investing in any one investor.
The other way is by having a large enough top of the funnel where a no just doesn't feel painful.
Right? Like why do people go to each other on meeting apps? Because they feel like the pool is infinite.
Right? They're like, oh, well, you know, I can just like swipe right for 30min and have a bunch more dates.
So, that's why people are not accountable. Things like thing here the larger your top of the funnel the less pain you're gonna feel when any one person goes to you or does no or whatever.
So. 2 things. Do not invest too much time at the early stages into any one investors asks.
And 2 have a large enough top of the funnel where you're not gonna feel bad if somebody just goes to.
And that goes into this whole skipping line thing. So we're gonna talk about timing and scheduling, but you should really organize your fundraising through phases.
There should be a integral face where you are meeting addresses for the 1st time and you should do all of them during that extra qualities.
You should not do intro calls during the second or 3rd days of your plan race. During the second phase, you are talking to partners and other stakeholders in the firm and during the 3rd phase you are in the you know partner call like decision.
Process. If somebody started to skip the line like they're asking you for data early on, just say, you know, happy, happy, Sandra, of that.
I would love to 1st get her another call with, you know, What are your partners and I'm gonna start those calls on date X.
Or just say let's schedule it for some time like if you're doing with the May, it's your interval month and they're like I would love for you to chat with my partner.
I'll just schedule a for Joe. Right, Dr. You didn't happen to rush that call, they will take it either way.
You know, they're saying that they will. There are exceptions, of course, like who gets to skip the line.
That's really your call. Like if you really get a good live from somebody and they are super excited and they are staying like hey this process is we can give you a know or yes quickly maybe it's worth letting them kind of stick the line and just give you that yes or no.
And, you know, let it go out of order. But be very, very careful how many people you love.
Do this because more people step the line the more again you're investing in people who are very early in the process and you have no guarantees that they're not gonna Go to or give you an afternoon.
Okay. Filling the top up funnel. So. This is when the research comes in, you know, create a Google Sheet.
Easiest way to follow to do rituals. Find everybody you want interest to.
We have shared Google Sheep for everybody you want interest to. Firm, partner, angel, whatever.
Reach out to your network. Preferably entrepreneurs and and just send them a, and have them put their name on next to whoever they can choose to do.
I found that to be easiest way. Folks are like, you know, hey, these, these, 10 people.
My friend John can introduce me to these other 5 people like he starts to introduce me to and and so on.
And Another one is just something to keep in mind. When you're incoming from various channels like then whatever, you know, you post that they use graduating.
You wanna get some LinkedIn interest, just respond to all the comes. Research these people a little bit, go on crunch base.
I highly recommend the paid crunch based account or, you know, you guys can get one for the group and share it.
Do a little bit of research if they seem legit. Respond to them and add them to your list of introductions then Good.
Actually our series of A investor cold out reached them. So. There you go. You know, like if I get a response to a cold messaging, we would have not found our city.
Okay, so this part's important. All of this is happening before you start your life. Before you start the actual fundraising, before you start talking the phone to people.
Make sure this is probably the most important thing here. Make sure you have enough leads lined up.
Again, if you're if you've done sales or any sort of selling the top of the funnel has to be large enough.
In order for you to lose at least half. And every single stuff in the process. 3 to 4 phases in this process.
And if you can't lose, you can cut this number by 2 4 times and still get to a couple of messages.
And your top of the funnel is not big enough. Right, so if you're coming in with 50 people top of the funnel.
Second stage are gonna be at 25. Then 12 and then 6 what is the chance that you're gonna get somebody to say yes out of 6 people to get to that of your funnel i would still say maybe 10% so seems small, oh, funnel, you definitely find someone who says, yes, you start with a hundred, you're gonna be in a slightly better place.
You're like, you're gonna have around, you know, you go 150, 25.
12. You got more than 10 people, at the end of your funnel. I would After how many having is that so?
50 2512 so after you cut in half 3 times i would want more than some people left over if there's, you know, they've got them far enough and there's a 10% chance of converting one of them.
A 100 is a good number to shoot for a little aspirational like, you know, we that 85 when it was enough.
But just make sure it's big enough. Then once you got everybody send all your affordable to the same time.
Your conversion to in so call is not going to be a hundred percent, right? Like a lot of these, forward, busy.
So expect the, you know, less than 50% conversion, phone, forward, to, busy. So expect the, you know, less than 50% conversion from, forward, email, to actual introduction.
If it's less than 50%, you're probably reaching out to young people. So I would stop here.
Go fill your top of the funnel again. And try that. So at this point you can still kind of go back, right?
You haven't done any calls yet. You, let's say you've got a hundred affordable and you get 20 people to respond like clearly there's something wrong with your approach that's not enough people going into kind of the next phase of things and I would not continue the process unless until you get as many people as you need and that second stage of the process unless until you get as many people as you need in that second
stage of the process. Okay. I'm gonna start. A month from now.
Or do you answer call with them and then that tell them you're gonna . That's a
Yep, so you can start getting into a call with the response command, but be sure you have enough people often before you move to the next step.
Once you've got 50 to 100, however many you think you need lined up at this point you can proceed.
But before you get to that point, I highly advise against that. Proceeding to the to the next stage because you are going to likely end up in a scenario where you do a ton of work.
And potentially never find a lead.
Cool. So again, this is for rounds where you do before, so something like, something typically.
You know, over 2 to 3 million. Again, this is sales funnel easier if you've got a good top of the funnel.
Your job is to find a link first.st Anybody who says I am. You know, I'm happy to do hollow investment.
Say awesome. Thank you. We'll get back to you in final lead. Don't spend time on it.
So if you're looking for a way to keep looking for the lead, don't divert your, time and effort into people who are following investors who cannot leave the route.
Do focus on the leave first.st and, make sure you find that before you move on.
Okay, cool. So
Now that you got your whole top of the funnel ready. Inter calls lined up. What do these calls look like?
So something to know about inter calls. So, 50 to 100 total, expect about a 50% conversion ratio.
A single month you can do 3 to 5 calls a day for 20 days. And so you can knock out you can knock out a hundred calls in a month.
It's an extra call, no pitch. We're getting to know the person. You're asking about the fund.
They're asking you about your company, your story. Your, progress. It's good to have a partner, but it's not necessary.
I know a lot of people say, hey, you're fundraising if you can get a partner in the 1st call with your backf or something like that, totally not sure.
Maybe probably 60% of the time we did not have a, partner in the 1st call.
You know, these and associates have a job for reason like they are literally filtering folks for the partner because the partner does not have time to take every single.
Cool, so join the call. What are you talking about? Ask them to give you their fund introduction first, st but they do this very quickly.
Okay, standard question ready for them. What is your investment thesis? Do you focus on DVD or DC?
What's your typical chefs, check size? What does typical process look like? Like how many calls do we do until the final parking call?
Don't spend more than 10min. Then run through your company story. Again, no more than 10min.
These calls are only 30min total. So you want to leave time for questions. This is why I hate.
Pitching it back because it usually takes a way too long to go through your whole pitch. So, you know, not more than 20min on both sides of introduction and then 10min of questions.
You can use your deck when answering questions if it's helpful. And then at that of the call.
We're gonna do this, but I found this, I started doing this later in the process. Ask them how ask them what they thought and how exciting this was for them and whether they're whether they think when they share us with the team, the team is gonna wanna talk to you.
A lot of folks will just tell you, right? The only thing this is a fit, they don't think it's exciting.
A lot of times their natural response is just, thank you and not give you any feedback. So if you want feedback, just ask for it.
And a lot of folks will just, we'll get started off. We're looking for companies that are, you know, slightly more like we hate hardware or something, right?
That's an easy one. We're looking for companies that are, you know, slightly more like we hate hardware or something, right? That's an easy one.
Or we're looking for companies that the way you're, that's fine. But easy for you, you cross them off the list and you keep going.
And then finally ask them when are they going to get back to the next steps? Should be no more than a week they hold their partner meetings weekly so if they do you not get back to within a week?
Again, single reminder, to get back to and then keep going.
Actually, sorry guys, let me hook up my laptop so it doesn't die. Give me 2 seconds.
Do you guys have any questions?
No questions, but I love the timeline in the end about like it should be no more than one week.
I think that's really good helpful information. To keep in mind when to go into this process.
Yeah, one reminder and then move on. But you have to be in the position to move on.
Like Alex said, that's key because It's easier said than done. I promise you once you're raising it's going to be very hard to move on and not try to get that one investor.
That you sent so much to.
I have a question around the email affordable that you send ahead of time. I know you mentioned doing kind of like a 1 pager we're also going to have our videos hopefully from the tech stars demo day What are your thoughts on like a 1 pager versus a video or should we do both?
Just depending on what the audience member kind of wants to process.
Video is good. A lot of times they won't have time to watch your video.
So they'll look at it back anywhere. If, if you are working super short 1min video, totally cool Sunday.
Okay, awesome.
Alex, one question quickly. You were in charge of this process and you were doing nothing else than this.
That's your job. Is this a a hundred percent? Of your time or the thunder time.
So the The round after tech stars, I was not doing this a hundred percent of the time and that was a mistake.
So I should have been doing a hundred percent because it took longer than necessary because I was also and working on companies and stuff.
But if you are if you are creating like a 3 month schedule and you wanna stick to it and you're doing you know a hundred info calls like you're gonna have to be doing your 100%.
So on those lines, Alex, dental does to have a builder and a seller in our company.
So my co-founder is gonna be the seller. I'm gonna be the builder.
I'm being the builder. Do you think it's realistic to split this between B and builder and being a fundraiser or should I have a CTO co-founder who's the builder and me be the fundraiser.
I was also the builder. That's why it was you know our 1st job and I kind of split the job.
And what Be good if there was at least another engineer or somebody who can take over some of that work.
Okay, thanks.
And Alex just one more thing, taking and like for what is coming today with the market of the last year is is this process do you think this there's something changing in this process the length of the process the amount of the final amount of Investor that you had to go look for today.
I was hearing what with the friend that he was talking with 200 people But maybe now you need to go to 400 people because of, kind of what's been happening.
With venture capital and investment.
I think if you are, you know, if you talk to a hundred people and you can't raise, you should just Okay, pass for a while.
And work in the company a little bit further because I think I think a hundred people should be enough.
If you don't have enough signal for somebody to be interested and you talk to 100 people, it's probably something about the way that your
Either what your, account, what you accomplished or the way that you're telling the story that's turning people off.
So I would. It's kind of the back re, recollect your software process and see what they're looking for.
So you're better idea of where you need to be.
For that sort of a raise.
Yeah, Alex, I have a question too. Just one other question. When you are raising your round after tech stars, were you looking at other comparables in your industry for that round or were you raising just based off of your own needs?
Sorry guys, I'm gonna I think I've got a connection issue. Give me one sec.
Let me just Right.
Okay, while we're waiting. I hope you guys can see the whole purpose of our demo day format because Alex has hit on almost every single piece.
So the Q&A you guys are going to be comfortable. Talking about your business. The. Video you're going to be able to send.
Okay. Everything is for a purpose to help you fundraise in the future.
Okay.
I think I'm back.
Okay, awesome. And sorry, what was your question?
Yeah, so I was just saying that when you are raising your round after tech stars, were you looking sort of as a barometer with comparables in your industry?
Based on the stage that you were at for the raise versus like just raising based on your own needs for what you needed at that time.
We just kind of raised our own, for our own needs. We weren't necessarily like trying to get the highest.
You know, we just chose a number that seemed reasonable to us. Both both, both accountable.
And evaluation goal where we were comfortable taking that amount of, we weren't really comparing ourselves to, .
Cool.
Alex?
Cool. So let me share my screen again here.
Alex, would you mind commenting like what are the gimmest that you have made because you are already in serious a so you have been through a lot.
So what do you think are the key? Yeah, things that you wouldn't do today like where where are they those?
Key mistakes that you can tell us about.
Yeah, so. Yeah, We ran a proper process with, you know, control timing and a good top of the funnel.
And the main mistake I mean was the previous round. But I think we would have worked a lot if we had done that correctly in the early rounds.
You know, ad hoc. Raise the state here, there and try to collect them off Monday.
Can you hear me or is my connection? Breaking up again.
It broke up a little bit, but we can still hear you.
Okay, yeah, just let me know.
Yeah, I can.
Alex, why don't you turn off your video? Just turn off your video. We don't we don't need to see.
Awesome. If there's no more call, questions here, so. After the 1st call, you know, send your thank you email and the teaser duck.
If you didn't originally send the user back in the forwardable. This way they have something visual to share with the rest of the remind them that you expect the follow-up, and, you know, follow the We'll follow the one or 2 strike rule.
And then repay what size them in your database. Like whatever you use for your master database, we prioritize them based on Good.
That from them how excited they were if they actually give you some feedback. Use that to kind of assign them a priority level of like interested, you know, medium interest or not that interested.
I think it's always good to keep this, you know, updated sorted list of investors based on how much they are.
Okay.
Okay, so Alex, just one question. If you don't mind it because you were breaking up a lot before if you can reiterate on the previous question about you said you you can reiterate on the previous question about you said you guys did a lot of too many sakes and about you said you guys did a lot of too many saves and how would you do it differently instead? You guys did a lot of too many saves and how would you do it differently instead?
Like what would be a structure you would recommend?
As far as the saves go, I mean, it hurt us a little bit on the evolution side, but honestly.
It wasn't too bad. The thieves. The 6 also helped us because we were able to do a you know, more flexible process before we knew how to do proper fundraising.
So I wanna say it was all bad. It was just that we kind of paid for it and, a little bit later.
If I was to do things again, I would probably not raise more than one. Again, not, or pretext our stuff.
I'd probably not raise more than one state round. So do safe round and then price round right after.
Okay. Can you guys still hear me?
Yep.
Yes.
Cool. So you had your intro call, second call should be with a partner. If, you know, if, you get an email saying that like the associate or VP or somebody wants to do a second call just ask them nicely to have a partner present.
It's a perfectly reasonable request. And they should be able to do it. So.
Do try to have a partner in the conversation because the faster you get a partner in a call the faster they're gonna give you either yes you know proceed or no because Otherwise, you're playing broken telephone and everything you say have to be then communicated to the partner by this other person who's gonna they're gonna mess it up.
So try to have the partner present on a second call. You want 20 to 50 leads at this point.
Again, assume 50% conversion. If you have a month that's 1 to do one to 2 per day for 20 days like at this point you can probably do a little bit of work on the side.
Make sure that, Yeah, and so during the call, again, you don't really need to use your deck.
The park is gonna have a lot of the same questions as the associate did, but they're gonna dig deeper.
They're gonna you're gonna phone the story. And then you give, 20min for questions because the partner is gonna dig a lot deeper into details, you know, your cohorts, retention, all the details of your business.
So most of this should be partner asked for questions and you giving them good responses. And then also make sure to leave, you know, have some good questions for the partner as well.
So, you know, ask them how they typically work with companies, what are some of the things that kind of stands out of other fund and etc, etc.
They may ask for some data at this point. If not, So typically at this point, they'll say like, hey, do you have a, you know, what do your cohorts look like?
And you can say, Hey, you know, we've got a cohort analysis that we can share with you.
You should know the high level numbers, but you at this point, they're not asking for data.
But they're kind of saying like, hey, we'll get back to you. Just you can go ahead and ask them what data do you need to feel more comfortable or convinced, about our company?
And typically, they'll just send you an email and say, here, here, are, here's where the data room, would look like that we would like to see.
Here's the data that we want to see. Just because they signed you stuff in this list of stuff, they want to see this meeting to give them all of it.
But it's good to have them say like this is the data that we want. And out of the call, exactly the same thing as them for feedback as them.
How exciting this opportunities to them. And ask them whether they're gonna follow up with you and if they add if they send you a data bus you can send that along, you know, after the call.
Essentially, you know, send them a thank you email. Send them the I don't think you need the cheeser duck in here anymore.
At somebody else with some data, send them whatever data that they ask for. And if it's not easy to pull for you, do not send them to them.
Like if you're gonna spend 3 days when you're like finance person trying to get this data, just say, sorry, we don't have this right now.
Happy to send them later. Here is some off the shelf figure that we have.
And again, it's same, same story. Report, reprieve, it's, and how excited they were, you know, did they ask for some data?
What, what did they say as far as feedback goes? What do they think?
Alex, this is Sally again. At this point, you still haven't walked them through your financial model, right?
Okay.
Like that's not something that's still happening in this calls.
Yeah, so this is the point where they might ask for it. So they'll say like, hey, as part of their data request, they're going to say, you want to see your historical financials, your projections, and like your cohort analysis.
And at this point, instead of Yeah, so sending financials is fine. Sending your cohort.
Now, this is fine. You know how to read all that stuff. Instead of a model, I would say either send them a video recording, are you going through the model or say I'm happy to walk you through the model on a call.
Because if you just said in the model, they're not likely gonna know how to use it. And get what they need out of it.
So that's why recording is great.
So that would be the next call then the 3rd call. Okay.
Yeah, and the 3rd call is where Yeah, they've looked at your data now and then they're gonna ask you questions on the 3rd call about the stuff that they saw in their data.
Perfect, thanks.
So let's. Yeah, let's scroll down to.
Alex for 10min left. Do you want to give any closing thoughts or maybe take like one final question?
So if you guys can go over by a couple of minutes, I can probably wrap this up.
This is probably the last. Piece on here up to you guys.
Yeah, I can. So, so, okay, so anyone who needs to drop, you can watch the past few minutes on the recording, but we'll keep going.
So 3rd or 4 of call it depends, sometimes you do 2 calls where you dig into data metrics.
Again, expect about, expect, about a 25% conversion here. It's probably gonna be lower than the previous ones because now they've seen all the details.
They've kind of looked under the hood. And a lot more people are gonna drop off.
You want You want to run down to 20. People left at this point. You're doing maybe one call every few days.
Walking people through data and answering questions about it. During the call, you're mostly talking about your data projections, explaining why you are projecting things.
Where you are, explaining your, you know, acquisition strategy, where you're like, wiser model the way it is.
And once you think that you've answered enough questions or once they feel like they've asked enough.
Again, they're gonna say, Hey, we'll get back to you, but you should be very specific asking them what if they keep like a They do 2 calls where you're talking about data.
You really need to ask the question. Where do we need to be in order to get to the final market meeting?
Because you do not want to spend all your time with back and forth on your data. If they keep asking for more data, they can do this, right?
They can keep asking before customer reuse. They can ask before like whatever stuff that's hard together.
You really do not want to drag this out. Has 2 calls. So they have not. Got them what they need across 2 data requests.
You basically just say like You know, I think I'm getting you enough at this point to make a decision.
If you guys would like to do a final partner call, that's great. If not, then I understand.
We're gonna move forward with our other investors. Because this data back and forth can literally go on forever.
They can just keep asking for more stuff. And you do not want to keep wasting your time.
So again, as of the call, thank you, email, with any other data to ask for. Reprioritize them and try to keep the whole data back and forth to a maximum of 2 calls.
Follow-up, like I said, repeat a maximum 2 times after 2 of these asked for the partner meeting if they refuse one.
That's basically no. And like, like you've got, if you got in here, congratulations.
If you got them to more than one of these, that's amazing. It would be awesome if you get 3 to 5 partner calls.
This is where the whole partnership gets in the call and you get to pitch to all of the partners. You know, expect about a 25% conversion to a term sheet at this point, because they, they have, now invested in time and whole partnership believes that this may be a good idea.
And this is where you're gonna need to do some more prep before calling this happens. So you want a full presentable deck with reference slides that address common questions.
Also remember that the partner you initially spoke to is now on your side and his reputation is sort of on the line because they're trying to push this deal over the line and they need to convince the rest of their partners that you are worth putting out for the fund.
So use them as a, at the point they flip from, you need to connect them. To use them to convince everybody else.
Ask them about all the partners that are going to be on the call. Ask them what questions we're gonna ask it.
It's a bit of a mental shift, but at this before this call. You should be working side by side with the partner that got you to this point.
And ask them anything that will give you an upper hand when presenting to the partnership. Like who are these people?
What is their background? What sort of questions do they like to ask? What are the concerns among the team about our company.
Get us much out of them as you can and they will be happy to help you at this point because they're sort of they're already they've already made in the decision to you know pitch you to the rest of the partners.
And if you're pitching with co-founders, make sure you do the whole, make sure you practice, do the drive runs together, have people you know challenge your assumptions.
And create slides that answer her questions.
So this is where you know you're at this point you're ready to present your deck is ready with answers to common questions and your Gotta get on a call.
All of the partners are gonna be there, right? You're gonna have like whatever, 15 people or something.
Site after this call. It's called nerve racking. Or it may be in person if they ask you kind of person.
One thing you need to remember is that most partners are not well educated in your business. And they are not as educated as the partner you have been pushing to.
So just assume they know nothing. And the goal is not for you to finish your presentation. This is where I think a lot of people will get into the wrong mindset of like if I don't finish my back.
They're not gonna be interested. The goal is to answer their questions. So let them interrupt you and tell them upfront that hey it's totally fine if you guys throw me I've got to answer your questions Ask my priority.
And jump around. So let them ask you questions. Jeffrey on your duck to answer those questions.
In fact, if you if you finish your presentation, they're probably not interested enough to ask watching us throughout your presentation.
So make it very clear that their questions are priority for you and not try to, finish it back.
And yeah, again, if you think of the presentation, there's not a lot of questions, really how uncomfortable asking or they just don't have anything to, which means they were just not interested enough.
So.
Alex, let me add there because. For rising stars, which is like Neil and Sophie and my, like small fund, our small preced fund.
I promise you there are so many people that come and pitch and because they're not comfortable talking about their business like off script or like not with the deck, they actually won't.
Talk to us until they've gotten through the presentation. That is not helpful because we have questions that they could have answered and gotten rid of our hesitations, but instead they're just going through their deck and the main reason is really like They're not comfortable talking off the cuff.
So what Alex is saying is a skill that you guys need to home and practice. You do not need to be glued to what becomes like a security blanket of your deck in your pitch.
Sometimes you won't even finish it because they're going to take it in a different direction. But that's what matters is just getting rid of all of their hesitations, not getting through what you think you need to get through.
They just want to double click on what Alex is saying.
Yeah. Yeah, 100%. And this is exactly why I don't use ducks in any of the rest of the process because if you if you're comfortable having a natural conversation and answering questions as they come you're now going to be glued to your duck.
Like the duck is the last thing to be built for all of us. So it's just, it's just a helpful way to kind of structure your presentation, but you're mainly using the data to answer questions and jumping around.
You should now be, to its sequence or finishing it or anything like that. It's really just an aid for you to get questions answered.
I mean, this is gonna be pretty easy after the call. You just reach out to the partner and ask them how it went.
Like, she's just calling right out to the board meeting. They spent some time, whatever, talking to each other.
Just call them, text the person an hour way or email them and ask, hey, how do you think you want?
They should give you their honest opinion. They're, there's no reason for them to try to, you know, out here because it's either yes or no.
Yeah, I know they're gonna follow up. It's likely a no, but you can.
I already over time.
A reminder and ask, how things went. Real quick and turn sheets. Or Sorry, any questions on?
That's these.
No, I, I think someone accidentally unmuted. No questions. Oh, sorry, Jennifer.
Oh, I have a question. Sorry.
I thought I thought you guys said something accidentally.
No, so going back to that follow up where you had said like, you know, if they're not interested and they don't reply to you, move on.
What if they actually do say like, hey, I'm super interested, this is right up my alley, this is in my thesis, and like, and you follow up with them and they don't follow up with you.
Do you still like? Follow up with them beyond one to 2 reminders like. I guess like how like How long should you keep and a potentially interested investor in in your pipeline and keep them warm.
Yeah, I mean, once it's a reminder, it's fine. And if they don't answer, just move on.
Okay.
You can always come back to them. Like let's say you find a lead and you need to follow on.
You can always come back to them and say like, hey, we already found the lead, but like if you're interested in following them and say like, hey, we already found the lead, but like if you're interested in following on, sometimes they just need a little Like, you have a you have a well known lead and that's enough signal to push that one over the edge and kind of move
Right.
quickly. But I was just not rely on them during the lead search.
Okay.
Okay, cool. So, the term sheet part. So this is where, you know, you're given a term sheet.
You, do want a lawyer at this point. The term is gonna have some back and forth on it, some redlining.
They're gonna or 1st of all, I think, that's if you got some sheet even if you get more than one, that's fantastic.
But a term sheet doesn't give you much time to respond to it. So they're gonna give you one to 2 weeks max to get a FMO.
Sometimes they'll give you like 3 days, which is super annoying. But if you expect more than one or 3 to come in.
Make sure that like make sure that they know like if they if they put a 3 day deadline on it'd be like sorry we have 3 more partner meetings and I'm like you have to give me at least 2 weeks.
To give a response. They can be, they can be assholes about it, you know, and not give you that time, but most of them aren't gonna do that because Yes, they don't wanna compete with other offers, but, they've already put in a ton of work.
It'll be silly for them not to at least give you an offer. And give you a chance to accept it.
So. The term sheet again. You can kind of drag it out a little bit by having your lawyer mark up the term sheet or kind of go back and forth on go back and forth on valuation and drag things out.
I've told other temp sheets coming. I think this is where it is well, a little bit of finesse involved.
We did not have this problem, so we just got one, and we just have to say yes or no.
So they don't really have to deal with the situation, but there are ways to kind of artificially.
As long as they think the red lining and the back and forth is progressing, they're not gonna force that.
Deadline on you. But if you, you know, if you have 2 term sheets and you went up.
Kind of negotiated, putting together each other. You can work with your lawyer on how best to do it or phone or, done that before.
And then finally, you sign a term sheet. This is where it's actually is very high level.
It's like 3 pages. These, the, the, round the price. Docs are like a hundred pages, right?
So that's what she gets converted to very, very detailed legal document of exactly. Very very precise terms that are not disclosing a things about board.
Work consistency and so on. So It's about the one diligent start. So this is where they're gonna actually go through all of your stuff, make sure, you know, your company is incorporated correctly.
Make sure that you have all of your employees legally employed at all of your. All of your stuff has been done correctly.
You know, for, or any sort of option agreements. And you have the contracts that you said that you have.
So this can take a month easily. So make sure that you're a good lawyer and make sure that you have put together at this point a detailed data room of everything you ask for.
You're gonna send you a whole list of stuff to have. And you and your team should. Make sure that everything's there.
And
Alex, question from the chat. For what kind of round do you need a lawyer? They've raised so far without one.
What they need one for an UN priced post demo day round like a safe round.
Do you have a worry for? You should still have a lawyer. It doesn't have to get expensive where just like Have a very cheap order to at least if people are investing and just basic unmodified saves you probably don't need to wear if people are investing on anything that is customized on the safe like any extra terms of grasping for you really do want a lawyer to look at it.
But yeah, they don't have to be expensive. They can do like 200 bucks an hour.
1,500 bucks an hour.
But it's worth it. Like, otherwise you may, you may regret it later when.
You know, there's something you've thought like one thing after you need something else. But the nice thing here is what's your opportunity?
You can now fill the rest of the round. And you can send terms to everybody who said maybe or yes after you find the lead.
And kind of finish that conversation about and try to get the rest of round. So if the, that are covered the whole, check says.
And you can be doing that during the, delicious process.
Nelson.
Yeah, thanks to Alex. I was curious if, you could give us a ballpark on how much you spent in legal fees under series A, just like rough estimate and whether your your investors made you put the bill for your legal fees because I've heard that's done quite a bit.
Yeah, so we spent very little money on our. We got a, a couple custom but it was like in the single digit thousands of dollars that maybe once 2,000.
The Series A was very expensive for us. It was, about a hundred K.
And the reason is because we had 3 rounds of stacks. We had like 65 sakes that converted in our series a and so It was about 50 K from our end and about 50 K from the investors.
And yes, it was customary to cover the investors legal costs. I've no idea how this custom came about, but the company pays out of the same money that they're giving you.
So.
And yeah, I mean, this is where that other piece about safe conversion. It gets complex, especially when there's a lot of saved in different terms and lawyers spent like a lot of hours for making sure the captain was correctly done.
Oh, it's like a second piece that I forgot about is we have 2 clothings and the reason for that is that we had a cynic involved we had launch.
And launch and give us a exact number. Of what their follow on investment is until they run the whole symmetry process which can take takes over a month.
So instead of waiting for launch to do that to collect their interest, we just did a 1st closing with the leader.
And then with our second closing would launch and any kind of lagging investors along with them. So because of the 2 closings.
Because we have the civic involved that takes over a month to gather their parata interests. We had to foot more legal bills and that's a break it up to closing stuff.
As far as filling around with extra investors, you know, really all you can use your, wearing instructions, some data room if they ask for it.
Most of them want to make care because they'll assume your, the intelligence. So really all they're looking for is.
As far as who, you know, who can pull these rounds again, same thing, family offices, small funds, angels, and the kids.
You can even use scrap funding if you really want to just one thing to know that If you do less than 1.2 million on crowdfunding, you do not need a financial order.
If you do between 1.2 to 5 million and crowdfunding, we do need financial audits.
With actual audit firm. So, you know.
I've heard that traditional venture capital firms don't like seeing crowd sourcing. Have you heard anything about that?
I mean sure they don't like it but mainly I think they don't like it because you need to share your financials with the world like you need to actually share them with SCC and they're gonna be public for anyone who search for searches for them.
Okay.
But if you do I'm not sure with the small around like the 1.2 million around if you have to share your financials with SCC or not.
Need to double check on that. But like the larger rounds like the 5 million refunders.
You need 2 years of auto financials that live online forever. So that they're always gonna be out there.
That's good to know. Thank you.
What's the standard? Is it not refundable? Like once you get this funding that's not not if it's say you're building your own hardware what is the standard is like you can tell the people who fund you that is not refundable.
Sorry, what do you mean by now refundable?
Oh, in other words, if you, you know, if you're selling a hardware and then either the hardware gets delayed, it's not in 6 months, is 9, 12 months, or it never gets built for whatever reason.
Do you have liability as a company or what is is that a standard for that? Like do you need to return the money to the people who funded your crop funding campaign?
Oh, you're talking about just crowdfunding, Karen. This is not Kickstarter.
No, no, they the crowd funding like a refunder and stuff, they must have the exact same instrument that was used for the whole round.
So if you safe. If you use if you have a price round, they will be part of the price round.
So exactly the same terms as with the rest of your investors. There's no, there's no special terms here.
Gotcha. But a kick started would be a different story, right? And that's something we look into it, right?
Yeah, yeah Kickstarter is not an investment. It's a pre-order for goods.
So if you do not ship those goods, then I think you I think you're liable for returning the money.
Bye. Thank you.
So.
Sorry, go ahead.
How did you come up with your free money valuation or did you let investors kind of drive that?
It's a good question. So. I was actually gonna run through that real quick. So here's what a typical.
Okay.
Path looks like. You know, precede 500 K to a million. 3 to 8 million post money valuation is fine this implies less than 12 and a half percent.
Then your feet round, you know, maybe a once a $300 round. Again, you want a slightly higher variation, so 8 to 25 is good.
Let again, less than 12 and a half percent. So across these 2 seed rounds, you're trying to get to under 25% evolution.
So, then you have your Series A. And you know you're raising 5 to 10 million not sure what your disease are these days but let's say it's 5 to 7 million Good if you have about a 25 to 50 million valuation, which applies less than 20%.
And that's a total devolution of about 45%. And I think if you can keep resolution to under 50%.
After your series a you're in a decent spot like you're not amazing but also not bad like you're still the owner of the founders probably still have like, you know, 30 to 40% of common shares at this point.
It's, and then This is where most of the dilution happens. It happens during these 3 rounds.
When you start getting to series B and on, typically, the solution is, I would even say like 10% or less.
Like if your company's gotten to that point and there's continuing to grow. The, and further rounds is gonna go.
Is typically going to be under 15 or under 10%. So the further you go out, the less evolution you see.
And that's why you see some of these companies raised like. You know, a hundred 1 million at a 1.5 billion dollar evaluation then flies like a 7% evolution.
So if you're growing fast, if you're getting to your series BCD, typically their root chain becomes a lot less relevant to that point because you're a lot more leverage and more investors want to give you money.
So the key is to keep reduction as low as possible during these 3 stages. We'll talk about boards in a second, but this was our path.
It was all different, but we took we had a precede. So this was like, and angels, about 300 fiftyk at a 3 and 4 million caps.
So 3 million caps, 6, or 4 million cap from our other angel investors. That was about 6% devolution total.
Then we get a safe round. But 2 million at a 89. One of the safe was that a 9 because it's random reason.
But we took about 16% per and then we had a I guess this was my lesson learned here.
Try to raise Thursday. Was not organized enough. You know, we were like 6 months in.
And still don't have the 10 million hour shooting for but we were raising it unsafe and decided to you know call it a day take whatever money.
That people committed. But it was at a fairly big valuation markup. Right, so this 4 million was at a 60 million post money, so very little devotion all that money.
Okay, at that point. And that finally the series they came around at that point we were what about 27%.
We took another 25 the total dilution of about 50% or 54% across these rounds but our series A was larger than a typical series.
So, you know, the 54%. Think it's a cover this was over 30 million dollars raised you know typical services are probably closer to like 10 to 15 so we figured this was a, this was a good enough deal for the amount of money that we raised.
And again, this is gonna, this is gonna kinda very for companies company like sure we could of optimize things.
Sure we could have raised that higher valuations but honestly early on what matters is that you get the cash.
Try not to raise a time at very low valuations and just hurt you like I want to raise a million at a 4 million cap.
You're giving away 25% of the company and makes no sense. When you start raising more than a million dollars, you probably want to be closer to like a, to keep that, so a good rule of thumb, you know, host series, a under 50% devotion, unless you raise a really big round, in which case, you know, we were willing to sacrifice that extra 5
percent.
And if we're gonna just make a different call, you guys, so. Again, these are all just rules.
The final thing is boards. So you do want to maintain control. After Series A.
I know that sometimes during seed rounds people ask for board seats. Your Series A is definitely gonna ask you for a Gourse unless you're really really lucky.
And so if you have a single phone, you A 100% do not want to go away, if you are 2 founders, I would still not give away any more seats.
Prior to Thursday. So we did not have any board members other than. Me and Dan, up until our Series A, at which point we built a 5 person board.
So it's myself then. Are Thursday lead and then 2 independent board members.
This is going to be important when it comes to future. So. Don't take this likely. You really do want to talk to your lawyer and Maintain company.
You really should be making decisions at this point, even if you disagree with the board. The problem with losing board control after series a you're still really early you are gonna make mistakes and you do not want the board to say, you know, we don't like how you're how you're doing.
We're gonna like replace our CEO at the series A stage. It's gonna kill the company and.
It's It's really painful when it happens that early. In the evolution of his life.
So off to your counsel, figure out how to maintain work control. They will offer There's 1 detail like a lot of times when you.
We need to negotiate more seats. They'll say that we will designate a board seat for the CEO.
This is not a good idea. Because if they replace you, if you get demoted from CEO to some other position, you will lose your board seat.
You do not want that to happen. So there's 2 founders, one of you CEO, what one of your COO or or CFO.
Stick to using common bore seats, meaning that you just have common shareholder board seats and do not tie them to any titles.
So this means that you can use your, you know, you replace yourself as CEO, you still get to maintain your board seat.
There's a ton of details here. It's, you know, who appoints an independent board members.
This is all stuff you should talk. Through with your lawyer and really not scamp on the details here.
It will come back to bite you if you ever get into any sort of, with your investors.
You can also remove, from the board and replace them with Sergei. Hey, you get one of your early CEOs on the board.
You get to practice board dynamics with them and then you get a big series a check and it's perfectly okay to ask them the the early station method to kinda step down to the aboard observer still participating but not doing hold the board seat.
And give that up to one of your new investors.
We've got a question in the chat from a little bit ago. Would you give one or 2 of the most common part hitting questions you've seen from partner conversations.
From a few minutes ago going back to the later meetings.
Hardly any questions for partial conversations. They typically, I mean, they'll ask questions and you definitely want to answer them.
In a way that makes people think like you thought about it. You definitely don't want to brush things off.
Like when they ask about competition, you shouldn't say, oh, that's not a problem.
Apple's not gonna take our business, whatever. But nothing pops out as like we were caught off guard by somebody.
And that's kind of how you want it to be at that point. You having done through you know talking to 100 investors you really should have seen all the questions that you're gonna see.
With the partners, you do wanna spend more time. Just making sure that you explain to them and answer their question as well.
But you really shouldn't be surprised by their questions at that point.
Absolutely, thank you.
Cool. Any other questions on? You know, valuations, probably, somebody back up, valuations, board members, any of the stuff.
Looks like we're good.
Awesome. Well, that is it. Thank you guys. I hope this will helpful.
I'll send around. A PDF that you know you're free to use that has all of the stuff in there all the links and feel free to ping me through.
You know, either should be an email or, or anywhere else that you prefer. If you got any questions, Happy answer and happy to do some one in one calls and kind of help you out with your fundraise when the time comes.
Thank you so much. This is awesome. Really, really appreciate you coming to chat with us.
Awesome. Thank you guys. Have a good one.
Have a good one.
Bye guys